# Chapter 1 :: Computer and Programs

## 1.3 What Is Computer Science
Computers is an important tool in CS, but it is not itself the object of study. Since a computer can carry out any process that we can describe, the real question is "What processes can we describe?".

To put it another way, the fundamental question of CS is simple **"What can be computed?"** And numerous techniques of investigation to answer this question are used: *design*, *analysis*, and *experimentation.*

One way to demonstrate that a particular problem can be solved is to design a solution: a step-by-step process for achieving the desired result $\rightarrow$ **Algorithm**

The design of algorithms is one of the most important facets of computer science: in this book you will find techniques for designing and implementing algorithms.

One weakness of design is that it can only answer the question "What is computable?" in the positive. If I can devise an algorithm, then the problem is solvable. However, failing to find an algorithm does not mean that a problem is unsolvable. This is where analysis comes in.

Analysis is the process of examining algorithms and problems mathematically. Some problems are not solvable by any algorithm, others are intractable (the algorithm takes too much time to be of practical use). 

Some problems are too complex or ill-defined to lend themselves to analysis. In such cases, computer scientist rely on experimentation; they actually implement systems and then study the resulting behavior.